
Subject: Re: Skype call reminder
From: Carl Tape
Date: 12/22/2014 06:37 AM
To: Ryan Modrak
CC: Dimitri Komatitsch, Daniel Peter , David Luet , Ebru Bozdag , Zhinan Xie, Matthieu Lefebvre , Jeroen Tromp , Federica Magnoni , Emanuele Casarotti

Hi Ryan and all,

I met with Ebru, Emanuele, Frederica, Elliott, and Lion on Thursday
night at AGU. (We scheduled at the last minute and missed Min and
Hejun, unfortunately.) Below are some discussion points and questions.
You already have plenty to discuss anyway, so you don't have to
consider any of these, of course. I cced Emanuele and Frederica,
though I don't think they'll be back by Monday.

+ It seems like those in our discussion were supportive of the move
from "legacy" utilities (perl, sac, flexwin, measure_adj) to
python-based utilities (obspy, pyflex, pyadj). Lion seemed quite
willing to rewrite measure_adj into python (pyadj) - the multitaper
measurement is the key piece, and there are Slepian tapers within
python libraries, apparently.

+ Lion suggested that, in his opinion, the hdf5 file format would be
optimal for seismograms and adjoint sources. I don't know the details
about this. But clearly this is an important decision, since it
impacts the processing scripts, adjoint sources, the moment tensor
inversion codes, etc.

+ For the early part of the adjoint tomo workflow, it seems like LASIF
(http://krischer.github.io/LASIF/) might provide some organizational
structure. It sounded like this was complementary to the inversion
part of the workflow that Ryan has been discussing. I plan on
exploring LASIF in January.

+ The seismogram-based calculation of numerical resolution is a minor
part of the workflow. But also something that can be done easily, once
the two sets of simulations are performed. I do it in matlab (with the
waveform toolbox), but this can be done faster and better in obspy,
too. Here is my AGU presentation slides on this topic:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/0Bym088u-rKlvMnVrSk1hajhBQWc/view?usp=sharing

+ What constitutes a need to move a variable from constants.h to
Par_file? Is it based on how often people use these variables? We
discussed APPROXIMATE_HESS_KL (inversion), USER_T0 (inversion), and
NGLLX (minimum resolvable period).

constants file:
https://github.com/geodynamics/specfem3d/blob/devel/setup/constants.h.in

+ Are the src/tomograhy/ files different in SPECFEM3D and SPECFEM3D_GLOBE?

+ My impression is that for the optimization part, there are several
efforts, including those at Princeton, those by Dimitri, as well as
from outside the group. (Andreas Fichtner has someone organizing some
basic capabilities for this part of the workflow.) Furthermore, there
are libraries within petsc (http://www.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/) that are
broadly used in parallel solvers.

I write all this from the perspective of someone who has done very
little regarding the adjoint tomography workflow since 2009. But I
have several projects that will move forward in 2015, lead by me
(southern California), my student Vipul Silwal (Alaska), my postdoc
Amir Allam (fault zones up to 5-10 Hz), and Yoshihiro Kaneko (New
Zealand). I'd like to get these folks on the right track and am open
to trying out new things. Hopefully we can help in this effort.

I'll talk to you soon. Thanks for including me in the call.

Carl

---------------------------------------------------------------
Carl Tape
Assistant Professor
Geophysical Institute (office 413D)
University of Alaska Fairbanks
Web: http://www.giseis.alaska.edu/input/carl/
---------------------------------------------------------------

